All right, so we are going really
great with microservice
architecture and we are
understanding the ins and outs
of the microservice architecture.
But here is one more fundamental
problem that how do
microservices are going
to communicate with each other?
Let's say the order service
wants to talk to the email service
because you know, when
you place an order you want
to send an email to the user.
So this is a fundamental
problem that how to establish
this order service, right?
This, this communication
in between the services.
How to establish this communication,
how to establish this communic.
So there are two methods
of establish this particular,
you know, communication.
One is known as a synchronous,
okay, a synchronous communication.
And one is known as
asynchronous communication.
So let me just get the terms first.
Sync means something is happening
in the sync, right?
You have to talk
to the service and you have to wait
for the response back.
That is a sync.
When we talk about async
means that, hey, you know,
do it in the background.
That is async.
So we will talk about these
things in the detail.
But these, the fundamental
problem is how services
can communicate with each other.
So in this particular video, let's
talk about the HTTP sync method.
One method is very simple that what
you can do is you can directly, you
can directly say the order service
that hey, whenever you want to send
an email, just make an HTTP call.
See how users are basically
interacting with the email
service using slash email.
So order service can also make a post
request on/emails/ let's say send
and send the payload as body,
okay, whatever they want to send
and they can talk to each other.
So that means any server, right?
Any server right here, if it wants
to send an email, it has
to basically talk to the load
balancer of the email service.
Now this request can be
redirected to any one of the server
that is that is all good.
And then what we can do, we
can basically send the email.
This is known as
a synchronous method.
Okay?
This is a synchronous method
because when you open a post
request, when you open this
connection, you have to wait,
you have to wait for the email
service to complete that
particular request and get back
the response of 200.
Here is a fundamental problem
with this approach,
the synchronous approach.
Number one, that it's
a blocking request.
Let's say for some reasons
the email server was down.
For some reasons the email
service has been down.
Now what will happen is when you will
make this particular connection.
When you will try to send
this request, this request
will also fail, right?
And if this request fail, this
server might also fail because it
was dependent on the email service
and it was not able to complete.
So this is one problem that
if this thing fails, this
thing also starts to fail.
Second problem is that now what
you are doing is that it
becomes a dependent service.
Order service has to know the address
of the email service, right?
What if there was no email service?
So, so order service is now,
you know, linked with is dependent
on the email service to be healthy.
If this service is down, this
server might went down.
So this is a problem.
But that's okay.
I mean, I'm not discussing
the problem here.
I was basically telling you that this
is known as a synchronous method.
So inside the code you can
actually make an API call
to the email service, do your stuff,
come back and do the stuff.
So this was a synchronous method.
This method is good, it is guaranteed
that the email will be sent.
But this introduces new set of
problems that it is more dependent.
There is a high coupling and we
usually do not prefer this method.
So to solve this particular method
we have an asynchronous method.
So in the next video, let's see what
is the asynchronous method
to communicate between the services.